:book: add migration guide from v2 to v3 (#1714)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/migration/migration_guide_v2tov3.md

# Migration from v2 to v3

Make sure you understand the [differences between Kubebuilder v2 and v3](./v2vsv3.md)
before continuing

Please ensure you have followed the [installation guide](/quick-start.md#installation)
to install the required components.

## Steps to migrate to v3 project layout

<aside class="note warning">
<h1>Note</h1>

The following steps will be based on the [QuickStart][QuickStart] steps. 

</aside>

> The following changes need to be applied to the project configuration file `(PROJECT)` that can be found at the root directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following changes need to be applied to the project configuration file (`PROJECT`) that can be found at the root directory:
```

Author: Done 👍

# Migration from v2 to v3

> Make sure you understand the [differences between Kubebuilder v1 and v2](./v2vsv3.md)

Reviewer 2: Given the link target, I would expect this needs to be

```suggestion
Make sure you understand the [differences between Kubebuilder v2 and v3](./v2vsv3.md)
```

before continuing

Please ensure you have followed the [installation guide](/quick-start.md#installation)
to install the required components.

## Steps to migrate to v3 project layout

> 

Reviewer: You are saying to add and modify fields without saying where those fields need to be added or updated.

> The following changes need to be applied to the project configuration file (`PROJECT`) that can be found at the root directory:

<aside class="note warning">
<h1>Note</h1>

The following steps will be based on the [QuickStart][QuickStart] steps. 

</aside>

- Add the `projectName`

The project name is the name of the project directory in lowercase:

```
...
projectName: example
...
```

- Add the `layout`

The default plugin layout which is equivalent to the previous versions is `go.kubebuilder.io/v2`: 

```
...
layout: go.kubebuilder.io/v2
...
```

> - Add the `version`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update the `version`
```

The `version` field represents the version of Project layouts. So, you ought to update this to `3-alpha`:

```
...
version: 3-alpha`
...
```

> The final result of your project file would like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final project file would look like:
```

```sh
domain: my.domain
layout: go.kubebuilder.io/v2
projectName: example
repo: example
resources:
- group: webapp
  kind: Guestbook
  version: v1
version: 3-alpha
```

### Verification

Finally, we can run `make` and `make docker-build` to ensure things are working
fine.

## Migrating your projects to use v3+ plugins

<aside class="note warning">

<h1>Note</h1>

> v3+ plugins still in alpha version and are not scaffolded by default. You are able to use then and try it out and get all improvements made so far by initializing projects with the arg `--plugins=go.kubebuilder.io/v3-alpha`: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
v3+ plugins are still in alpha phase and are not scaffolded by default. You are able to use them, try it out and get all improvements made so far by initializing projects with the arg `--plugins=go.kubebuilder.io/v3-alpha`: 
```

```sh 
kubebuilder init --domain my.domain --plugins=go.kubebuilder.io/v3-alpha
```

</aside>

<aside class="note warning">

<h1>Note</h1>

> Currently, the plugin `v3-alpha` has NO breaking changes. However, until it is declared stable breaking changes can be made related to K8s API deprecations of `v1beta1` versions of `CustomResourceDefinition` and `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` andd to upgrade the `cert-manager`. More info:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the plugin `v3-alpha` has NO breaking changes. However, until it is declared stable breaking changes can be made related to K8s API deprecations of `v1beta1` versions of `CustomResourceDefinition` and `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` and to upgrade the `cert-manager`. More info:
```

> Currently, the plugin `v3-alpha` has NO breaking changes. However, until it get the stable state it might address some breaking changes to address some wished requirements related to k8s API deprecations of `CustomResourceDefinition` and `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` `v1beta1` version as to upgrade the `cert-manager`. More info:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the plugin `v3-alpha` has NO breaking changes. However, until it is declared stable breaking changes can be made related to K8s API deprecations of `v1beta1` versions of `CustomResourceDefinition` and `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` andd to upgrade the `cert-manager`. More info:
```

- [cert-manager related configuration should be migrated to cert-manager.io/v1 #1666
](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/1666)
- [Set preserveUnknownFields to false in the CRD conversion webhook patch #933](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/933)
- [Migrate existing KB project to v1 CRDs and Webhooks with minimal user effort #1065
](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/1065)
   
</aside>

> ### Prerequisites
> 
> Following the above steps to migrate your project to
> v3 project layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This says nothing new, we are at the middle of a v2->v3 migration guide, we already now we are following these steps to migrate.

Author: Oks. Make sense 👍

> Following the above steps to migrate your project to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the above steps to migrate your project to the
```

### Update your PROJECT file

> Update the `layout` with the new plugin version ` go.kubebuilder.io/v3-alpha` and it would like to: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the `layout` setting to the new plugin version ` go.kubebuilder.io/v3-alpha` as follows: 
```

```sh
 $ cat PROJECT 
domain: my.domain
layout: go.kubebuilder.io/v3-alpha
projectName: example
repo: example
resources:
- group: webapp
  kind: Guestbook
  version: v1
version: 3-alpha

```

### V3+ plugins significant changes in the scalffold

<aside class="note warning">

<h1>Note</h1>

> The following changes are NOT breaking changes. In this way, these changes are optional but recommended in order to keep your project updated with the latest changes made so far. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following changes are NOT breaking changes. In this way, these changes are optional but recommended in order to keep your project up-to-date with the latest changes made so far. 
```

</aside>

#### Manager Rootless

> The projects built with `v3+ plugin now define a specific `user ID` and `securityContext` policy to prevent root privilege escalation from the manager container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The projects built with v3+ plugin now define a specific `user ID` and `securityContext` policy to prevent root privilege escalation from the manager container.
```

> The projects built with v3+ plugin now define a specific `user ID` and `securityContext` policy for not allow to escalate root privileges from the manager container. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The projects built with v3+ plugin now define a specific `user ID` and `securityContext` policy to prevent root privilege escalation from the manager container. 
```

  
- Update your Dockerfile to define an ID for the user used:

Replace:

```
USER nonroot:nonroot
``` 

With:

```
USER 65532:65532
```

- Update your `manager.yaml` manifests in the `config/manager/` directory by adding:

```yaml
...
spec:
      securityContext:
        runAsUser: 65532
...
``` 

```yaml
...
name: manager
securityContext:
  allowPrivilegeEscalation: false

```

> The final result would like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The final result would look like:
```

```yaml 
...
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: controller-manager
  namespace: system
  labels:
    control-plane: controller-manager
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      control-plane: controller-manager
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        control-plane: controller-manager
    spec:
      securityContext:
        runAsUser: 65532
      containers:
      - command:
        - /manager
        args:
        - --enable-leader-election
        image: controller:latest
        name: manager
        securityContext:
          allowPrivilegeEscalation: false
        resources:
          limits:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 30Mi
          requests:
            cpu: 100m
            memory: 20Mi
      terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 10
```

#### Roles (RBAC) bug fixes

> Now, the roles are scaffolding by adding a finalizer permissions. More info: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/1654 Feel free to add them to your projects. Following an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From now on, the scaffolded roles include finalizer permissions ([more info](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/issues/1654)). Feel free to add them to your projects. As an example:
```
